.TH MAC-SETUP 7 "2026-03-12" "mac-setup" "Tom's System Reference"
.SH NAME
mac-setup \- opinionated macOS bootstrap with Homebrew, Stow, and Catppuccin Mocha
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./setup.sh
.RI [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Idempotent macOS bootstrap that installs packages via Homebrew, manages
dotfiles with GNU Stow, installs runtimes with mise, and applies
Catppuccin Mocha theming across all tools.
.PP
The repo lives at
.B ~/Workspace/mac-setup
and can be re-run safely at any time.
.SH BOOTSTRAP STEPS
.IP 1. 4
Install Xcode Command Line Tools and accept license
.IP 2. 4
Install Homebrew
.IP 3. 4
Install packages/apps from Brewfile (gcloud-cli and docker-desktop deferred)
.IP 4. 4
Create .env from .env.example if missing
.IP 5. 4
Back up existing configs to ~/config-backups/
.IP 6. 4
Stow dotfiles into $HOME
.IP 7. 4
Install private fonts from iCloud Drive
.IP 8. 4
Prompt for git user.name and user.email (stored in ~/.gitconfig.local)
.IP 9. 4
Generate SSH key (ed25519) if missing; upload to GitHub via gh
.IP 10. 4
Verify git commit signing (1Password SSH agent, signing key)
.IP 11. 4
Install Ghostty shaders, link macOS app configs (Zed, Obsidian)
.IP 12. 4
Install LazyVim, stow Neovim plugin configs, download zjstatus
.IP 13. 4
Install runtimes via mise (node, python, ruby, go)
.IP 14. 4
Install gcloud-cli, Docker Desktop, App Store apps
.IP 15. 4
Install Rust via rustup-init and Cargo tools (basalt-tui) via cargo-binstall
.IP 16. 4
Prune old backups in ~/config-backups/, keeping the 3 most recent
.SH STOW PACKAGES
Each package under
.B stow/
mirrors $HOME structure.
Re-stow with:
.B (cd stow && stow \-\-target="$HOME" \-\-restow <package>)
.PP
.TS
l l.
Package	Contents
_
zsh	.zshrc, .zprofile
git	.gitconfig, .gitignore (global)
bat	.config/bat/config
lazygit	.config/lazygit/config.yml
ripgrep	.ripgreprc
ssh	.ssh/config (1Password agent, Include config.local)
starship	.config/starship.toml
ghostty	.config/ghostty/config
zellij	.config/zellij/config.kdl, layouts/default.kdl, scripts/
mise	.config/mise/config.toml
zed	.config/zed/settings.json
nvim	.config/nvim/lua/config/options.lua, plugins/ghostty.lua
obsidian	.config/obsidian/obsidian.json
claude	.claude/CLAUDE.md, skills/, statusline.sh
eza	.config/eza/theme.yml
yazi	.config/yazi/theme.toml, Catppuccin-mocha.tmTheme
skhd	.config/skhd/skhdrc (Hyper key app launchers)
karabiner	.config/karabiner/assets/complex_modifications/hyper.json
.TE
.SH GIT ALIASES
OMZ-style aliases defined in .zshrc:
.PP
.TS
l l.
Alias	Command
_
g	git
ga	git add
gaa	git add \-\-all
gb	git branch
gba	git branch \-\-all
gc	git commit
gcmsg	git commit \-m
gco	git checkout
gcb	git checkout \-b
gd	git diff
gds	git diff \-\-staged
gf	git fetch
gl	git pull
gp	git push
gpf	git push \-\-force\-with\-lease
glog	git log \-\-oneline \-\-graph \-\-decorate
gloga	git log \-\-oneline \-\-graph \-\-decorate \-\-all
grb	git rebase
grbi	git rebase \-i
gst	git status
gsw	git switch
gswc	git switch \-c
.TE
.SH TOOL ALIASES
.TS
l l.
Alias	Tool
_
lg	lazygit
zj	zellij
zja	zellij attach \-c main
d	docker
lzd	lazydocker
k	kubectl
y	yazi (cwd-on-exit wrapper)
cc	claude
cx	codex
gal	gcloud auth login
spotify	open \-a Spotify (when installed)
.TE
.SH SHELL ALIASES
.TS
l l.
Alias	Action
_
\&..	cd ..
\&...	cd ../..
\&....	cd ../../..
\&.....	cd ../../../..
cat	bat (when installed)
ls	eza \-\-group\-directories\-first \-\-icons=auto
ll	eza \-la \-\-group\-directories\-first \-\-icons=auto \-\-git \-\-header \-\-time\-style=relative
la	eza \-a \-\-group\-directories\-first \-\-icons=auto
lt	eza \-\-tree \-\-level=2 \-\-icons=auto \-\-git \-\-git\-ignore
vim, vi	nvim
l	ls \-lah
.TE
.SH SHELL COMPLETIONS
Loaded for: kubectl, docker, mise, gh, stern, rustup, cargo, gcloud, fzf, yazi.
.SH SHELL OPTIONS
.TP
.B auto_cd
Type a directory name to cd into it (e.g.,
.B ../foo
instead of
.BR "cd ../foo" ).
.TP
.B extended_glob
Advanced glob patterns (#, ~, ^).
.TP
.B correct
Suggests corrections for mistyped commands.
.TP
.B append_history
Append to history file instead of overwriting.
.TP
.B share_history
Share history across all open shells.
.TP
.B hist_ignore_dups
Skip duplicate history entries.
.TP
.B hist_ignore_space
Commands starting with a space are not recorded.
.TP
.B hist_reduce_blanks
Remove superfluous blanks from history entries.
.SH ZELLIJ KEYBINDS
Default zellij keybinds plus custom overrides.
.SS Mode switching
.TS
l l.
Keys	Action
_
Ctrl+p	Pane mode
Ctrl+t	Tab mode
Ctrl+n	Resize mode
Ctrl+h	Move mode
Ctrl+s	Scroll mode
Ctrl+o	Session mode
.TE
.SS Resize mode (Ctrl+n)
.TS
l l.
Keys	Action
_
h / Left	Resize left
j / Down	Resize down
k / Up	Resize up
l / Right	Resize right
+	Increase size
\-	Decrease size
.TE
.SS Move mode (Ctrl+h)
.TS
l l.
Keys	Action
_
h / Left	Move pane left
j / Down	Move pane down
k / Up	Move pane up
l / Right	Move pane right
Tab	Swap with next pane
.TE
.SS Pane mode (Ctrl+p)
.TS
l l.
Keys	Action
_
h / Left	Focus pane left
j / Down	Focus pane down
k / Up	Focus pane up
l / Right	Focus pane right
p	Focus previous pane
n	New pane
d	New pane (down)
r	Rename pane (custom override)
s	New stacked pane
x	Close pane
f	Toggle fullscreen
w	Toggle floating
e	Embed floating pane
z	Toggle pane frames
.TE
.SS Custom keybinds
.TS
l l.
Keys	Action
_
Super+k	Clear scrollback
Super+Shift+l	Launcher (fzf app picker)
Alt+arrows	Resize pane (no mode switch)
.TE
.SH GIT CONFIG
Managed via stow at
.BR ~/.gitconfig .
Machine-specific overrides go in
.BR ~/.gitconfig.local .
.PP
Key settings:
.TP
.B core.pager
delta (with navigate mode)
.TP
.B commit.gpgSign
SSH signing via 1Password (op-ssh-sign)
.TP
.B core.excludesfile
~/.gitignore (stow-managed global gitignore)
.TP
.B push.autoSetupRemote
Auto-track upstream on first push
.TP
.B fetch.prune
Remove stale remote-tracking branches
.TP
.B filter.lfs
Git LFS enabled
.SH RUNTIMES
Managed by
.BR mise .
Versions in
.BR ~/.config/mise/config.toml :
node 22, python 3.13, ruby 3.4, go 1.24.
Rust managed via
.BR rustup .
.SH ZSH PLUGINS
.TP
.B zsh-autosuggestions
Fish-like inline suggestions based on history.
.TP
.B zsh-syntax-highlighting
Real-time syntax highlighting at the prompt.
.TP
.B fzf-tab
Replace zsh default completion menu with fzf.
.SH AUTO-START ZELLIJ
Interactive Ghostty shells automatically launch zellij.
Opt out per-shell with:
.B NO_AUTO_ZELLIJ=1 zsh
.PP
Only triggers when all of these are true: interactive shell, in Ghostty,
not already inside zellij or tmux.
.SH THEME
Catppuccin Mocha everywhere: Ghostty, Zellij (zjstatus), Starship, Zed,
Yazi, bat, lazygit, eza, FZF.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/Workspace/mac-setup/
Repository root
.TP
.B ~/config-backups/
Timestamped backups from bootstrap runs
.TP
.B ~/.gitconfig.local
Machine-specific git config (user.email, credential helpers)
.TP
.B ~/.ssh/config
1Password SSH agent config (stow-managed), includes config.local
.TP
.B ~/.ssh/config.local
Machine-specific SSH hosts (not tracked)
.TP
.B ~/.secrets
Machine-specific env vars (not tracked)
.TP
.B ~/.local/state/zsh/history
Zsh history file (50k lines)
.SH COMMON TASKS
.TP
.B Re-run bootstrap
\&./setup.sh
.TP
.B Dry run
\&./setup.sh \-\-dry\-run
.TP
.B Re-stow a package
(cd stow && stow \-\-target="$HOME" \-\-restow git)
.TP
.B Update runtimes
Edit stow/mise/.config/mise/config.toml, then mise install
.TP
.B Add a Homebrew package
Add to brew/Brewfile, then brew bundle \-\-file=brew/Brewfile
.TP
.B Run tests
bats tests/
.TP
.B Export Zed extensions
\&./scripts/export-zed-extensions.sh
.TP
.B Manage skip-worktree
\&./scripts/skip-worktree.sh \-\-help
.SH USAGE GUIDES
Practical how-to documentation lives in
.BR docs/guides/ :
.TP
.B zellij.md
Keybinds, launcher, zjstatus bar, custom scripts
.TP
.B shell.md
Aliases, completions, fzf, navigation, plugins
.TP
.B git.md
Delta pager, 1Password signing, config split, custom aliases
.TP
.B theming.md
Catppuccin Mocha setup, re-theming with Claude Code
.TP
.B customization.md
Adding packages, stow modules, runtimes, aliases
.TP
.B bootstrap.md
Understanding and troubleshooting setup.sh
.SH AUTHOR
mac-setup contributors
